# 3.11. Protein Activation

This module represents the *Protein Activation* process of the "whole-cell model" published in [Cell](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22817898) by Karr *et al.*.

"Protein Activation" process includes activation/deactivation of 10 species *(DNA_GYRASE, MG_085_HEXAMER, MG_101_MONOMER, MG_127_MONOMER, MG_203_204_TETRAMER, MG_205_DIMER, MG_236_MONOMER, MG409_DIMER, RIBOSOME_30S, RIBOSOME_50S)* with respect to satisfaction of conditions (metabolites; antibiotics, PI, G6P or temperature). The process involves all/nothing type of transitions where all particles of each species are either active or inactive. For the sake of practice in communication with other modules, active species are labeled with the same labels in the WholeCell KnowledgeBase and inactive species are labeled as *__inactive. All the other monomers and complexes in the whole model are considered active all the time independent of any quantity or parameter.

The *ProteinActivation-model.cps* is the COPASI file of the module (stand-alone). The time course simulation is set to a duration of 1 s and an interval size of 1 s. The activation/deactivation of the species take place with events which are triggered with respect to the conditions that are satisfied (presence/absence of antibiotics, temperature threshold etc.). To enable all the events to be triggered, a dummy event ("event_dummy") is created which is triggered with the formation of a dummy species ("dummy") during a dummy reaction ("dummy_reaction") with irreversible constant flux. To test the model in COPASI, all of the species, antibiotics, PI, G6P and temperature are assigned initial values (which will be read in the whole model) and the plot of 1 s simulation can be seen in the outputs.

*ProteinActivation-diagram.xml* is prepared in CellDesigner and the diagram is also exported as *ProteinActivation.sbgn* which can be imported into Vanted.

*ProteinActivation.xml* is the SBML file of the model, *ProteinActivation-model.sedml* and *model.xml* are SED-ML files which were all exported from COPASI.